Rest is a set of guidelines that are used to develop APIs.
An API mediates the interaction of a consumer and a system.
A rest API is just an API that conforms to a set of guidelines.
In this lesson, you will learn about rest APIs.
Let's start with a very broad definition of an API.
It is simply a mediator between a consumer and a system.
Imagine that you have a consumer that needs content.
The API, what it's going to do is read the consumer's request and if it's valid, it acts as a mediator
by grabbing content from another system and then it produces a response.
No arrests.
API is an API that conforms to a set of guidelines.
First of all, arrest the revolves around the concept of resources.
A resource usually implies a piece of data that you can name.
Examples include employees, contacts, movies or products.
Here.
A database stores a bunch of contacts, and each contact is considered a resource.
Now, if a consumer wants to access a resource, they need to specify a.
U.
R.
I.
The Urry.
The Uniform Resource Identifier identifies the location of a resource.
The following Yuri identifies the location of the contact resource.
John Snow.
Also a rest API should define operations that can manipulate resources, get to retrieve a resource
post, creates a resource, put updates a resource and delete.
Deletes a resource.
If a user wants to delete a resource, they need to make a delete request.
The Urry identifies the resource to be deleted.
The API defines an operation that is capable of deleting the resource.
It can use the information provided by the URI to delete the resource in question.
The resource is most often represented using JSON.
If a user wants to access a resource, they will make a get request.
The URI identifies the resource to be accessed.
The API defines an operation that is capable of accessing the resource.
It can use the information provided by the URI to access the resource in question.
And it's going to serialize the data into JSON before sending it back.
JSON represents the data in the form of key value pairs.
A collection is a grouping of resources.
If the user wants to access all of the contacts, they would specify a Yuri and point that requests
all of the contacts.
The API would define an operation that is capable of accessing a collection of contacts, and what it's
going to do is send back the collection in JSON format once again.
When it comes to collections, the JSON starts with a square bracket such that each contact is limited
by a comma.
Perfect.
Let's start putting all of this into practice.